README.md, before:

CSS (A CSS parser and minifier written in PHP)

---

![Current version](https://img.shields.io/badge/dynamic/json?label=current%20version&query=version&url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Ftbela99%2Fcss%2Fmaster%2Fcomposer.json) [![Packagist](https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/tbela99/css.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/tbela99/css) [![Documentation](https://img.shields.io/badge/dynamic/json?label=documentation&query=version&url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Ftbela99%2Fcss%2Fmaster%2Fcomposer.json)](https://tbela99.github.io/css) [![Known Vulnerabilities](https://snyk.io/test/github/tbela99/gzip/badge.svg)](https://snyk.io/test/github/tbela99/css)

A CSS parser, beautifier and minifier written in PHP. It supports the following features

## Features

- support CSS4 colors
- merge duplicate rules
- remove duplicate declarations
- remove empty rules
- process @import directive
- remove @charset directive
- compute css shorthand (margin, padding, outline, border-radius, font)
- query the css nodes using xpath like syntax
- transform the css output using the Renderer class

## Installation

install using [Composer](https://getcomposer.org/)

```bash
$ composer require tbela99/css
```

## Requirements

PHP version >= 7.4

## Usage:

```css
h1 {
  color: green;
  color: blue;
  color: black;
}

h1 {
  color: #000;
  color: aliceblue;
}
```

PHP Code

```php

use \TBela\CSS\Compiler;

$compiler = new Compiler();

$compiler->setContent('
h1 {
  color: green;
  color: blue;
  color: black;
}

h1 {
  color: #000;
  color: aliceblue;
}');

echo $compiler->compile();
```

Result

```css
h1 {
  color: #f0f8ff;
}
```

Parse the css file and generate the AST

```php

use \TBela\CSS\Parser;
use \TBela\CSS\Renderer;

$parser = new Parser($css);
$element = $parser->parse();

// pretty print css
$css = (string) $element;

// minified output
$renderer = new Renderer([
  'compress' => true,
  'convert_color' => 'hex',
  'css_level' => 4,
  'allow_duplicate_declarations' => false
  ]);

$css = $renderer->render($element);

// save as json
file_put_contents('style.json', json_encode($element));
```

Load the AST and generate css code

```php

use \TBela\CSS\Compiler;

$ast = json_decode(file_get_contents('style.json'));

$compiler = new Compiler([
    'convert_color' => true,
    'compress' => true, // minify the output
    'remove_empty_nodes' => true // remove empty css classes
]);

$compiler->setData($ast);

$css = $compiler->compile();
```

## The CSS Query API

Example: Extract Font-src declaration

CSS source

```css
@font-face {
  font-family: "Bitstream Vera Serif Bold";
  src: url("/static/styles/libs/font-awesome/fonts/fontawesome-webfont.fdf491ce5ff5.woff");
}

body {
  background-color: green;
  color: #fff;
  font-family: Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif;
}
h1 {
  color: #fff;
  font-size: 50px;
  font-family: Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif;
  font-weight: bold;
}

@media print {
  @font-face {
    font-family: MaHelvetica;
    src: local("Helvetica Neue Bold"), local("HelveticaNeue-Bold"),
      url(MgOpenModernaBold.ttf);
    font-weight: bold;
  }
  body {
    font-family: "Bitstream Vera Serif Bold", serif;
  }
  p {
    font-size: 12px;
    color: #000;
    text-align: left;
  }

  @font-face {
    font-family: Arial, MaHelvetica;
    src: local("Helvetica Neue Bold"), local("HelveticaNeue-Bold"),
      url(MgOpenModernaBold.ttf);
    font-weight: bold;
  }
}
```

PHP source

```php

use \TBela\CSS\Compiler;

$compiler = new Compiler();

$compiler->setContent($css);

$stylesheet = $compiler->getData();

// get all src properties in a @font-face rule
$nodes = $stylesheet->query('@font-face/src');

echo implode("\n", array_map('trim', $nodes));
```

result

```css
@font-face {
  src: url("/static/styles/libs/font-awesome/fonts/fontawesome-webfont.fdf491ce5ff5.woff");
}
@media print {
  @font-face {
    src: local("Helvetica Neue Bold"), local("HelveticaNeue-Bold"),
      url(MgOpenModernaBold.ttf);
  }
}
@media print {
  @font-face {
    src: local("Helvetica Neue Bold"), local("HelveticaNeue-Bold"),
      url(MgOpenModernaBold.ttf);
  }
}
```

render optimized css

```php

$stylesheet->setChildren(array_map(function ($node) { return $node->copy(); }, $nodes));

$stylesheet->deduplicate();

echo $stylesheet;
```

result

```css
@font-face {
  src: url(/static/styles/libs/font-awesome/fonts/fontawesome-webfont.fdf491ce5ff5.woff)
}
@media print {
 @font-face {
   src: local("Helvetica Neue Bold"), local(HelveticaNeue-Bold), url(MgOpenModernaBold.ttf)
 }
}
```

## Build a CSS Document

```php

use \TBela\CSS\Element\Stylesheet;

$stylesheet = new Stylesheet();

$rule = $stylesheet->addRule('div');

$rule->addDeclaration('background-color', 'white');
$rule->addDeclaration('color', 'black');

echo $stylesheet;

```

output

```css
div {
  background-color: #fff;
  color: #000;
}
```

```php

$media = $stylesheet->addAtRule('media', 'print');
$media->append($rule);

```

output

```css
@media print {
  div {
    background-color: #fff;
    color: #000;
  }
}
```

```php
$div = $stylesheet->addRule('div');

$div->addDeclaration('max-width', '100%');
$div->addDeclaration('border-width', '0px');

```

output

```css
@media print {
  div {
    background-color: #fff;
    color: #000;
  }
}
div {
  max-width: 100%;
  border-width: 0;
}
```

```php

$media->append($div);

```

output

```css
@media print {
  div {
    background-color: #fff;
    color: #000;
  }
  div {
    max-width: 100%;
    border-width: 0;
  }
}
```

```php

$stylesheet->insert($div, 0);
```

output

```css
div {
  max-width: 100%;
  border-width: 0;
}
@media print {
  div {
    background-color: #fff;
    color: #000;
  }
}
```

## Transform Rendered CSS

Use the Renderer class to transform the output. the callback returns three types of values

- a Css node that will be rendered in place of the original node
- a string that will be rendered in place of the original node
- the constant Renderer::IGNORE_NODE, the node will not be rendered

input Css

```css
@font-face {
  font-family: "Bitstream Vera Serif Bold", "Arial", "Helvetica";
  src: url("/static/styles/libs/font-awesome/fonts/fontawesome-webfont.fdf491ce5ff5.woff");
}
.pic {
  background: no-repeat url("imgs/lizard.png");
}
.element {
  background-image: url("imgs/lizard.png"), url("imgs/star.png");
}
```

PHP code

```php
use TBela\CSS\Element\AtRule;
use \TBela\CSS\Renderable;
use \TBela\CSS\Element\Declaration;
use \TBela\CSS\Property\Property;
use \TBela\CSS\Renderer;
use \TBela\CSS\Compiler;
use TBela\CSS\Value;
use TBela\CSS\Value\CssUrl;

$element = (new Compiler())->setContent($css)->getData();

$renderer = new Renderer();

$renderer->on('emit', function (Renderable $node) {

    // remove @font-face
    if ($node instanceof AtRule && $node['name'] == 'font-face') {

        return $this::IGNORE_NODE;
    }

    // rewrite image url() path for local file
    if ($node instanceof Declaration || $node instanceof Property) {

        if (strpos($node->getValue(), 'url(') !== false) {

            $node = clone $node;

            $node->getValue()->map(function (Value $value): Value {

                if ($value instanceof CssURL) {

                    $value->arguments->map(function (Value $value): Value {

                        if (is_file($value->value)) {

                            return Value::getInstance((object) ['type' => $value->type, 'value' => '/'.$value->value]);
                        }

                        return $value;
                    });
                }

                return $value;
            });
        }
    }
});

echo $renderer->render($element);
```

Result

```css
.pic {
  background: no-repeat url(/imgs/lizard.png);
}
.element {
  background-image: url(/imgs/lizard.png), url(/imgs/star.png);
}
```

## Parser Options

- flatten_import: process @import directive and import the content into the css. default to false.
- allow_duplicate_rules: allow duplicated rules. By default duplicate rules are merged
- allow_duplicate_declarations: allow duplicated declarations in the same rule.
- sourcemap: include source location data

## Compiler Options

- charset: if false remove @charset
- glue: the line separator character. default to '\n'
- indent: character used to pad lines in css, default to a space character
- remove_comments: remove comments. If _compress_ is true, comments are always removed
- convert_color: convert colors to a format between _hex_, _hsl_, _rgb_, _hwb_ and _device-cmyk_
- css_level: will use CSS4 or CSS3 color format. default to _4_
- compress: produce minified output
- remove_empty_nodes: remove empty css rules when the node is rendered

The full [documentation](https://tbela99.github.io/css) can be found [here](https://tbela99.github.io/css)

---

Thanks to [Jetbrains](https://jetbrains.com) for providing a free PhpStorm license

This was originally a PHP port of https://github.com/reworkcss/css

Commit message:

add a mention about old php versions

README.md, after:

CSS (A CSS parser and minifier written in PHP)

---

![Current version](https://img.shields.io/badge/dynamic/json?label=current%20version&query=version&url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Ftbela99%2Fcss%2Fmaster%2Fcomposer.json) [![Packagist](https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/tbela99/css.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/tbela99/css) [![Documentation](https://img.shields.io/badge/dynamic/json?label=documentation&query=version&url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Ftbela99%2Fcss%2Fmaster%2Fcomposer.json)](https://tbela99.github.io/css) [![Known Vulnerabilities](https://snyk.io/test/github/tbela99/gzip/badge.svg)](https://snyk.io/test/github/tbela99/css)

A CSS parser, beautifier and minifier written in PHP. It supports the following features

## Features

- support CSS4 colors
- merge duplicate rules
- remove duplicate declarations
- remove empty rules
- process @import directive
- remove @charset directive
- compute css shorthand (margin, padding, outline, border-radius, font)
- query the css nodes using xpath like syntax
- transform the css output using the Renderer class

## Installation

install using [Composer](https://getcomposer.org/)

```bash
$ composer require tbela99/css
```

## Requirements

This library requires PHP version >= 7.4. If you need support for older versions of PHP 5.6 - 7.3 then checkout [this branch](https://github.com/tbela99/css/tree/php56-backport)

## Usage:

```css
h1 {
  color: green;
  color: blue;
  color: black;
}

h1 {
  color: #000;
  color: aliceblue;
}
```

PHP Code

```php

use \TBela\CSS\Compiler;

$compiler = new Compiler();

$compiler->setContent('
h1 {
  color: green;
  color: blue;
  color: black;
}

h1 {
  color: #000;
  color: aliceblue;
}');

echo $compiler->compile();
```

Result

```css
h1 {
  color: #f0f8ff;
}
```

Parse the css file and generate the AST

```php

use \TBela\CSS\Parser;
use \TBela\CSS\Renderer;

$parser = new Parser($css);
$element = $parser->parse();

// pretty print css
$css = (string) $element;

// minified output
$renderer = new Renderer([
  'compress' => true,
  'convert_color' => 'hex',
  'css_level' => 4,
  'allow_duplicate_declarations' => false
  ]);

$css = $renderer->render($element);

// save as json
file_put_contents('style.json', json_encode($element));
```

Load the AST and generate css code

```php

use \TBela\CSS\Compiler;

$ast = json_decode(file_get_contents('style.json'));

$compiler = new Compiler([
    'convert_color' => true,
    'compress' => true, // minify the output
    'remove_empty_nodes' => true // remove empty css classes
]);

$compiler->setData($ast);

$css = $compiler->compile();
```

## The CSS Query API

Example: Extract Font-src declaration

CSS source

```css
@font-face {
  font-family: "Bitstream Vera Serif Bold";
  src: url("/static/styles/libs/font-awesome/fonts/fontawesome-webfont.fdf491ce5ff5.woff");
}

body {
  background-color: green;
  color: #fff;
  font-family: Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif;
}
h1 {
  color: #fff;
  font-size: 50px;
  font-family: Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif;
  font-weight: bold;
}

@media print {
  @font-face {
    font-family: MaHelvetica;
    src: local("Helvetica Neue Bold"), local("HelveticaNeue-Bold"),
      url(MgOpenModernaBold.ttf);
    font-weight: bold;
  }
  body {
    font-family: "Bitstream Vera Serif Bold", serif;
  }
  p {
    font-size: 12px;
    color: #000;
    text-align: left;
  }

  @font-face {
    font-family: Arial, MaHelvetica;
    src: local("Helvetica Neue Bold"), local("HelveticaNeue-Bold"),
      url(MgOpenModernaBold.ttf);
    font-weight: bold;
  }
}
```

PHP source

```php

use \TBela\CSS\Compiler;

$compiler = new Compiler();

$compiler->setContent($css);

$stylesheet = $compiler->getData();

// get all src properties in a @font-face rule
$nodes = $stylesheet->query('@font-face/src');

echo implode("\n", array_map('trim', $nodes));
```

result

```css
@font-face {
  src: url("/static/styles/libs/font-awesome/fonts/fontawesome-webfont.fdf491ce5ff5.woff");
}
@media print {
  @font-face {
    src: local("Helvetica Neue Bold"), local("HelveticaNeue-Bold"),
      url(MgOpenModernaBold.ttf);
  }
}
@media print {
  @font-face {
    src: local("Helvetica Neue Bold"), local("HelveticaNeue-Bold"),
      url(MgOpenModernaBold.ttf);
  }
}
```

render optimized css

```php

$stylesheet->setChildren(array_map(function ($node) { return $node->copy(); }, $nodes));

$stylesheet->deduplicate();

echo $stylesheet;
```

result

```css
@font-face {
  src: url(/static/styles/libs/font-awesome/fonts/fontawesome-webfont.fdf491ce5ff5.woff)
}
@media print {
 @font-face {
   src: local("Helvetica Neue Bold"), local(HelveticaNeue-Bold), url(MgOpenModernaBold.ttf)
 }
}
```

## Build a CSS Document

```php

use \TBela\CSS\Element\Stylesheet;

$stylesheet = new Stylesheet();

$rule = $stylesheet->addRule('div');

$rule->addDeclaration('background-color', 'white');
$rule->addDeclaration('color', 'black');

echo $stylesheet;

```

output

```css
div {
  background-color: #fff;
  color: #000;
}
```

```php

$media = $stylesheet->addAtRule('media', 'print');
$media->append($rule);

```

output

```css
@media print {
  div {
    background-color: #fff;
    color: #000;
  }
}
```

```php
$div = $stylesheet->addRule('div');

$div->addDeclaration('max-width', '100%');
$div->addDeclaration('border-width', '0px');

```

output

```css
@media print {
  div {
    background-color: #fff;
    color: #000;
  }
}
div {
  max-width: 100%;
  border-width: 0;
}
```

```php

$media->append($div);

```

output

```css
@media print {
  div {
    background-color: #fff;
    color: #000;
  }
  div {
    max-width: 100%;
    border-width: 0;
  }
}
```

```php

$stylesheet->insert($div, 0);
```

output

```css
div {
  max-width: 100%;
  border-width: 0;
}
@media print {
  div {
    background-color: #fff;
    color: #000;
  }
}
```

## Transform Rendered CSS

Use the Renderer class to transform the output. the callback returns three types of values

- a Css node that will be rendered in place of the original node
- a string that will be rendered in place of the original node
- the constant Renderer::IGNORE_NODE, the node will not be rendered

input Css

```css
@font-face {
  font-family: "Bitstream Vera Serif Bold", "Arial", "Helvetica";
  src: url("/static/styles/libs/font-awesome/fonts/fontawesome-webfont.fdf491ce5ff5.woff");
}
.pic {
  background: no-repeat url("imgs/lizard.png");
}
.element {
  background-image: url("imgs/lizard.png"), url("imgs/star.png");
}
```

PHP code

```php
use TBela\CSS\Element\AtRule;
use \TBela\CSS\Renderable;
use \TBela\CSS\Element\Declaration;
use \TBela\CSS\Property\Property;
use \TBela\CSS\Renderer;
use \TBela\CSS\Compiler;
use TBela\CSS\Value;
use TBela\CSS\Value\CssUrl;

$element = (new Compiler())->setContent($css)->getData();

$renderer = new Renderer();

$renderer->on('emit', function (Renderable $node) {

    // remove @font-face
    if ($node instanceof AtRule && $node['name'] == 'font-face') {

        return $this::IGNORE_NODE;
    }

    // rewrite image url() path for local file
    if ($node instanceof Declaration || $node instanceof Property) {

        if (strpos($node->getValue(), 'url(') !== false) {

            $node = clone $node;

            $node->getValue()->map(function (Value $value): Value {

                if ($value instanceof CssURL) {

                    $value->arguments->map(function (Value $value): Value {

                        if (is_file($value->value)) {

                            return Value::getInstance((object) ['type' => $value->type, 'value' => '/'.$value->value]);
                        }

                        return $value;
                    });
                }

                return $value;
            });
        }
    }
});

echo $renderer->render($element);
```

Result

```css
.pic {
  background: no-repeat url(/imgs/lizard.png);
}
.element {
  background-image: url(/imgs/lizard.png), url(/imgs/star.png);
}
```

## Parser Options

- flatten_import: process @import directive and import the content into the css. default to false.
- allow_duplicate_rules: allow duplicated rules. By default duplicate rules are merged
- allow_duplicate_declarations: allow duplicated declarations in the same rule.
- sourcemap: include source location data

## Compiler Options

- charset: if false remove @charset
- glue: the line separator character. default to '\n'
- indent: character used to pad lines in css, default to a space character
- remove_comments: remove comments. If _compress_ is true, comments are always removed
- convert_color: convert colors to a format between _hex_, _hsl_, _rgb_, _hwb_ and _device-cmyk_
- css_level: will use CSS4 or CSS3 color format. default to _4_
- compress: produce minified output
- remove_empty_nodes: remove empty css rules when the node is rendered

The full [documentation](https://tbela99.github.io/css) can be found [here](https://tbela99.github.io/css)

---

Thanks to [Jetbrains](https://jetbrains.com) for providing a free PhpStorm license

This was originally a PHP port of https://github.com/reworkcss/css
